## 0.17.0 (2019-03-05)

This update includes several changes to core `@pulumi/pulumi` constructs that will not play nicely
in side-by-side applications that pull in prior versions of this package.  As such, we are rev'ing
the minor version of the package from 0.16 to 0.17.  Recent version of `pulumi` will now detect,
and warn, if different versions of `@pulumi/pulumi` are loaded into the same application.  If you
encounter this warning, it is recommended you move to versions of the `@pulumi/...` packages that
are compatible.  i.e. keep everything on 0.16.x until you are ready to move everything to 0.17.x.

### Improvements

- `Output<T>` now 'lifts' property members from the value it wraps, simplifying common coding patterns.
  For example:

```ts
interface Widget { text: string, x: number, y: number };
var v: Output<Widget>;

var widgetX = v.x;
// `widgetX` has the type Output<number>.
// This is equivalent to writing `v.apply(w => w.x)`
```

Note: this 'lifting' only occurs for POJO values.  It does not happen for `Output<Resource>`s.
Similarly, this only happens for properties.  Functions are not lifted.

- Depending on a **Component** Resource will now depend on all other Resources parented by that
  Resource. This will help out the programming model for Component Resources as your consumers can
  just depend on a Component and have that automatically depend on all the child Resources created
  by that Component.  Note: this does not apply to a **Custom** resource.  Depending on a
  CustomResource will still only wait on that single resource being created, not any other Resources
  that consider that CustomResource to be a parent.

