## 0.17.11 (2019-05-13)

### Major Changes

#### Secrets and Pluggable Encryption

- The Pulumi engine and Python and NodeJS SDKs now have support for tracking values as "secret" to ensure they are
  encrypted when being persisted in a state file. `[pulumi/pulumi#397](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/397)`

  Any existing value may be turned into a secret by calling `pulumi.secret(<value>)` (NodeJS) or
  `Output.secret(<value>`) (Python).  In both cases, the returned value is an output which may be passed around
  like any other.  If this value flows into a resource, the plaintext will not be stored in the state file, but instead
  It will be encrypted, just like values added to config with `pulumi config set --secret`.

  You can verify that values are being stored as you expect by running `pulumi stack export`, When values are encrypted
  in the state file, they appear as an object with a special signature key and a ciphertext property.

  When outputs of a stack are secrets, `pulumi stack output` will show `[secret]` as the value, by default.  You can
  pass `--show-secrets` to `pulumi stack output` in order to see the actual raw value.

- When storing state with the Pulumi Service, you may now elect to use the passphrase based encryption for both secret
  configuration values and values that are encrypted in a state file.  To use this new feature, pass
  `--secrets-provider passphrase` to `pulumi new` or `pulumi stack init` when you initally create the stack. When you
  create the stack, you will be prompted for a passphrase (or if `PULUMI_CONFIG_PASSPHRASE` is set, it will be used).
  This passphrase is used to generate a unique key for your stack, and config values and encrypted state values are
  encrypted using AES-256-GCM. The key is derived from your passphrase, and while information to re-create it when
  provided with your passphrase is stored in both the `Pulumi.<stack-name>.yaml` file and the state file for your stack,
  this information can not be used to recover the key. When using this mode, the Pulumi Service is unable to decrypt
  either your secret configuration values or and secret values in your state file.

  We will be adding gestures to move existing stacks managed by the service to use passphrase based encryption soon
  as well as gestures to change the passphrase for an existing stack.

** Note **

Stacks with encrypted secrets in their state files can only be managed by 0.17.11 or later of the CLI. Attempting
to use a previous version of the CLI with these stacks will result in an error.

Fixes #397

### Improvements

- Add support for Azure Pipelines in CI environment detection.
- Minor fix to how Azure repository information is extracted to allow proper grouping of Azure
  repositories when various remote URLs are used to pull the repository.

