## 0.15.2 (2018-09-11)

### Major Changes

Major features of this release include:

#### Ephemeral status messages

Providers are now able to register "ephmeral" update messages which are shown in the "Info" column in the CLI during an update, but which are not printed at the end of the update. The new version of the `@pulumi/kubernetes` package uses this when printing messages about resource initialization.

#### Local backend

The local backend (which stores your deployment's state file locally, instead of on pulumi.com) has been improved. You can now use `pulumi login --local` or `pulumi login file://<path-to-storage-root>` to select the local backend and control where state files are stored. In addition, older versions of the CLI would behave slightly differently when using the local backend vs pulumi.com, for example, some operations would not show previews before running.  This has been fixed.  When using the local backend, updates print the on disk location of the checkpoint file that was written. The local backend is covered in more detail in [here](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/state/).

#### `pulumi refresh`

We've made a bunch of improvements in `pulumi refresh`. Some of these improve the UI during a refresh (for example, clarifying text about the underyling operations) as well fixing bugs with refreshing certain types of objects (for example CloudFront CDNs).

#### `pulumi up` and `pulumi new`

You can now pass a URL to a Git repository to `pulumi up <url>` to deploy a project without having to manage its source code locally. This works like `pulumi new <url>`, but configures and deploys the project from a temporary directory that will be cleaned up automatically after the update.

`pulumi new` now outputs an error when the current working directory (or directory specified explicitly via the `--dir` flag) is not empty. Additionally, `pulumi new` now runs a preview of an initial update at the end of its operation and asks if you would like to perform the update.

Both `pulumi up` and `pulumi new` now support `-c` flags for specifying config values as arguments (e.g. `pulumi up <url> -c aws:region=us-east-1`).

### Improvements

In addition to the above features, we've made a handfull of day to day improvements in the CLI:

- Support `pulumi` in a projects in a Yarn workspaces. [pulumi/pulumi#1893](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/1893)
- Improve error message when there are errors decrypting secret configuration values. [pulumi/pulumi#1815](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/1815)
- Don't fail `pulumi up` when plugin discovery fails. [pulumi/pulumi#1745](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/1745)
- New helpers for extracting and validating values from `pulumi.Config`. [pulumi/pulumi#1843](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/1843)
- Support serializng "factory" functions. [pulumi/pulumi#1804](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/1804)

