## 0.9.11 (2018-01-22)

### Added

- Added the ability to import or export a stack's deployment in the Pulumi CLI. This command can be used for either local or managed stacks. There are two new verbs under the command `stack`:
  - `export` writes the current stack's latest deployment to stdout in JSON format.
  - `import` reads a new JSON deployment from stdin and applies it to the current stack.

- A basic progress spinner is displayed during deployment operations.
  - When the Pulumi CLI is run in interactive mode, it displays an animated ASCII spinner
  - When run in non-interactive mode, CLI prints a message that it is still working. For CI systems that kill jobs when there is no CLI output (such as TravisCI), this eliminates the need to create shell scripts that periodically print output.

### Changed

- To make the behavior of local and managed stacks consistent, the Pulumi CLI uses a separate encryption key for each stack, rather than one shared for all stacks. You can now use a different passphrase for different stacks. Similar to managed stacks, you cannot copy and paste an encrypted value from one stack to another in `Pulumi.yaml`. Instead you must manage the value via `pulumi config`.

- The default behavior for `--color` is now `always`. To change this, specify `--color always` or `--color never`. Previously, the value was based on the presence of the flag `--debug`.

- The command `pulumi logs` now defaults to returning one hour of logs and outputs the start time that is  used.

### Fixed

- When a stack is removed, `pulumi` now deletes any configuration it had saved in either the `Pulumi.yaml` file or the workspace.

