README.md, before:

<a href="https://pulumi.io" title="Pulumi Cloud Development Platform - AWS Azure Kubernetes Containers Serverless"><img src="https://pulumi.io/images/logo/logo.svg" width="350"></a>

[![Slack](https://pulumi.io/images/badges/slack.svg)](https://slack.pulumi.io)
[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40pulumi%2Fpulumi.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@pulumi/pulumi)
[![Python version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pulumi.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/pulumi)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/pulumi/pulumi?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/pulumi/pulumi)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/%40pulumi%2Fpulumi.svg)](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/blob/master/LICENSE)

**Pulumi's Cloud Native SDK** is the easiest way to create and deploy cloud programs that use
containers, serverless functions, hosted services, and infrastructure, on any cloud.

Simply write code in your favorite language and Pulumi automatically provisions and manages your
[AWS](https://pulumi.io/reference/aws.html), [Azure](https://pulumi.io/reference/azure.html),
[Google Cloud Platform](https://pulumi.io/reference/gcp.html), and/or
[Kubernetes](https://pulumi.io/reference/kubernetes.html) resources, using an
[infrastructure-as-code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_Code) approach.  Skip the YAML, and
use standard language features like loops, functions, classes, and package management that you already know and love.

For example, create three web servers:

```typescript
let aws = require("@pulumi/aws");
let sg = new aws.ec2.SecurityGroup("web-sg", {
    ingress: [{ protocol: "tcp", fromPort: 80, toPort: 80, cidrBlocks: ["0.0.0.0/0"]}],
});
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
    new aws.ec2.Instance(`web-${i}`, {
        ami: "ami-7172b611",
        instanceType: "t2.micro",
        securityGroups: [ sg.name ],
        userData: `#!/bin/bash
            echo "Hello, World!" > index.html
            nohup python -m SimpleHTTPServer 80 &`,
    });
}
```

Or a simple serverless timer that archives Hacker News every day at 8:30AM:

```typescript
let cloud = require("@pulumi/cloud");
let snapshots = new cloud.Table("snapshots");
cloud.timer.daily("daily-yc-snapshot", { hourUTC: 8, minuteUTC: 30 }, () => {
    let req = require("https").get("https://news.ycombinator.com", (res) => {
        let content = "";
        res.setEncoding("utf8");
        res.on("data", (chunk) => { content += chunk });
        res.on("end", () => {
           snapshots.insert({ date: Date.now(), content: content });
        });
    });
    req.end();
});
```

Many examples are available spanning containers, serverless, and infrastructure in
[pulumi/examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples).

Pulumi is open source under the Apache 2.0 license, supports many languages and clouds, and is easy to extend.  This
repo contains the `pulumi` CLI, language SDKs, and core Pulumi engine, and individual libraries are in their own repos.

## Welcome

<img align="right" width="400" src="https://pulumi.io/images/quickstart/console.png" />

* **[Getting Started](#getting-started)**: get up and running quickly.

* **[Tutorials](https://pulumi.io/quickstart)**: walk through end-to-end workflows for creating containers, serverless
  functions, and other cloud services and infrastructure.

* **[Examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples)**: browse a number of useful examples across many languages,
  clouds, and scenarios including containers, serverless, and infrastructure.

* **[A Tour of Pulumi](https://pulumi.io/tour)**: interactively walk through the core Pulumi concepts, one at a time,
  covering the entire CLI and programming model surface area in a handful of bite-sized chunks.

* **[Reference Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference)**: read conceptual documentation, in addition to details on how
  to configure Pulumi to deploy into your AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud accounts, and/or Kubernetes cluster.

* **[Community Slack](https://slack.pulumi.io)**: join us over at our community Slack channel.  Any and all
  discussion or questions are welcome.

* **[Roadmap](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/wiki/Roadmap)**: check out what's on the roadmap for the Pulumi 
  project over the coming months.

## <a name="getting-started"></a>Getting Started

Follow these steps to deploy your first Pulumi program, using AWS Serverless Lambdas, in minutes:

1. **Install**:

    To install the latest Pulumi release, run the following (see full [installation instructions](https://pulumi.io/install) for additional installation options):

    ```bash
    $ curl -fsSL https://get.pulumi.com/ | sh
    ```

2. **[Configure your Cloud Provider](https://pulumi.io/install#cloud-configuration)** so that Pulumi can deploy into it.

3. **Create a Project**:

    After installing, you can get started with the `pulumi new` command:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi new hello-aws-javascript
    ```

    The `new` command offers templates for all languages and clouds.  Run it without an argument and it'll prompt
    you with available projects.  This command created an AWS Serverless Lambda project written in JavaScript.

4. **Deploy to the Cloud**:

    Run `pulumi update` to get your code to the cloud:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi update
    ```

    This makes all cloud resources needed to run your code.  Simply make edits to your project, and subsequent
    `pulumi update`s will compute the minimal diff to deploy your changes.

5. **Use Your Program**:

    Now that your code is deployed, you can interact with it.  In the above example, we can curl the endpoint:

    ```bash
    $ curl $(pulumi stack output url)
    ```

6. **Access the Logs**:

    If you're using containers or functions, Pulumi's unified logging command will show all of your logs:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi logs -f
    ```

7. **Destroy your Resources**:

    After you're done, you can remove all resources created by your program:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi destroy -y
    ```

Please head on over to [the project website](https://pulumi.io) for much more information, including
[tutorials](https://pulumi.io/quickstart), [examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples), and
[an interactive tour](https://pulumi.io/tour) of the core Pulumi CLI and programming model concepts.

## <a name="platform"></a>Platform

### CLI

| Architecture | Build Status |
| ------------ | ------------ |
| Linux/macOS x64 | [![Linux x64 Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi.svg?token=cTUUEgrxaTEGyecqJpDn&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi) |
| Windows x64  | [![Windows x64 Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/uqrduw6qnoss7g4i?svg=true&branch=master)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/pulumi/pulumi) |

### Languages

|    | Language | Status | Runtime |
| -- | -------- | ------ | ------- |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-js.png" height=38 /> | [JavaScript](./sdk/nodejs) | Stable | Node.js 6.x-10.x |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-ts.png" height=38 /> | [TypeScript](./sdk/nodejs) | Stable | Node.js 6.x-10.x |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-python.png" height=38 /> | [Python](./sdk/python) | Preview | Python 2.7 |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-golang.png" height=38 /> | [Go](./sdk/go) | Preview | Go 1.x |

### Clouds

|    | Cloud | Status | Docs |
| -- | ----- | ------ | ---- |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-aws.png" height=38 /> | [Amazon Web Services](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws) | Stable | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/aws/) |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-azure.png" height=38 /> | [Microsoft Azure](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-azure) | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/azure/) |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-gd.png" height=38 /> | [Google Cloud Platform](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-gcp) | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/gcp/) |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-kubernetes.png" height=38 /> | [Kubernetes](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes) | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/kubernetes/) |

### Libraries

There are several libraries that encapsulate best practices and common patterns:

| Library | Status | Docs | Repo |
| ------- | ------ | ---- | ---- |
| AWS Serverless | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/aws-serverless/) | [pulumi/pulumi-aws-serverless](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws-serverless) |
| AWS Infrastructure | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/aws-infra/) | [pulumi/pulumi-aws-infra](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws-infra) |
| Pulumi Multi-Cloud Framework | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/cloud/) | [pulumi/pulumi-cloud](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-cloud) |

## Contributing

Please See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on building Pulumi from source or contributing improvments.

Commit message:

Link to 'Supported Clouds' page rather than listing clouds in README. (#2546)
Also, update Python Runtime version.

README.md, after:

<a href="https://pulumi.io" title="Pulumi Cloud Development Platform - AWS Azure Kubernetes Containers Serverless"><img src="https://pulumi.io/images/logo/logo.svg" width="350"></a>

[![Slack](https://pulumi.io/images/badges/slack.svg)](https://slack.pulumi.io)
[![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40pulumi%2Fpulumi.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@pulumi/pulumi)
[![Python version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pulumi.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/pulumi)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/pulumi/pulumi?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/pulumi/pulumi)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/%40pulumi%2Fpulumi.svg)](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/blob/master/LICENSE)

**Pulumi's Cloud Native SDK** is the easiest way to create and deploy cloud programs that use
containers, serverless functions, hosted services, and infrastructure, on any cloud.

Simply write code in your favorite language and Pulumi automatically provisions and manages your
[AWS](https://pulumi.io/reference/aws.html), [Azure](https://pulumi.io/reference/azure.html),
[Google Cloud Platform](https://pulumi.io/reference/gcp.html), and/or
[Kubernetes](https://pulumi.io/reference/kubernetes.html) resources, using an
[infrastructure-as-code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_Code) approach.  Skip the YAML, and
use standard language features like loops, functions, classes, and package management that you already know and love.

For example, create three web servers:

```typescript
let aws = require("@pulumi/aws");
let sg = new aws.ec2.SecurityGroup("web-sg", {
    ingress: [{ protocol: "tcp", fromPort: 80, toPort: 80, cidrBlocks: ["0.0.0.0/0"]}],
});
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
    new aws.ec2.Instance(`web-${i}`, {
        ami: "ami-7172b611",
        instanceType: "t2.micro",
        securityGroups: [ sg.name ],
        userData: `#!/bin/bash
            echo "Hello, World!" > index.html
            nohup python -m SimpleHTTPServer 80 &`,
    });
}
```

Or a simple serverless timer that archives Hacker News every day at 8:30AM:

```typescript
let cloud = require("@pulumi/cloud");
let snapshots = new cloud.Table("snapshots");
cloud.timer.daily("daily-yc-snapshot", { hourUTC: 8, minuteUTC: 30 }, () => {
    let req = require("https").get("https://news.ycombinator.com", (res) => {
        let content = "";
        res.setEncoding("utf8");
        res.on("data", (chunk) => { content += chunk });
        res.on("end", () => {
           snapshots.insert({ date: Date.now(), content: content });
        });
    });
    req.end();
});
```

Many examples are available spanning containers, serverless, and infrastructure in
[pulumi/examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples).

Pulumi is open source under the Apache 2.0 license, supports many languages and clouds, and is easy to extend.  This
repo contains the `pulumi` CLI, language SDKs, and core Pulumi engine, and individual libraries are in their own repos.

## Welcome

<img align="right" width="400" src="https://pulumi.io/images/quickstart/console.png" />

* **[Getting Started](#getting-started)**: get up and running quickly.

* **[Tutorials](https://pulumi.io/quickstart)**: walk through end-to-end workflows for creating containers, serverless
  functions, and other cloud services and infrastructure.

* **[Examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples)**: browse a number of useful examples across many languages,
  clouds, and scenarios including containers, serverless, and infrastructure.

* **[A Tour of Pulumi](https://pulumi.io/tour)**: interactively walk through the core Pulumi concepts, one at a time,
  covering the entire CLI and programming model surface area in a handful of bite-sized chunks.

* **[Reference Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference)**: read conceptual documentation, in addition to details on how
  to configure Pulumi to deploy into your AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud accounts, and/or Kubernetes cluster.

* **[Community Slack](https://slack.pulumi.io)**: join us over at our community Slack channel.  Any and all
  discussion or questions are welcome.

* **[Roadmap](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/wiki/Roadmap)**: check out what's on the roadmap for the Pulumi 
  project over the coming months.

## <a name="getting-started"></a>Getting Started

Follow these steps to deploy your first Pulumi program, using AWS Serverless Lambdas, in minutes:

1. **Install**:

    To install the latest Pulumi release, run the following (see full [installation instructions](https://pulumi.io/install) for additional installation options):

    ```bash
    $ curl -fsSL https://get.pulumi.com/ | sh
    ```

2. **[Configure your Cloud Provider](https://pulumi.io/install#cloud-configuration)** so that Pulumi can deploy into it.

3. **Create a Project**:

    After installing, you can get started with the `pulumi new` command:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi new hello-aws-javascript
    ```

    The `new` command offers templates for all languages and clouds.  Run it without an argument and it'll prompt
    you with available projects.  This command created an AWS Serverless Lambda project written in JavaScript.

4. **Deploy to the Cloud**:

    Run `pulumi update` to get your code to the cloud:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi update
    ```

    This makes all cloud resources needed to run your code.  Simply make edits to your project, and subsequent
    `pulumi update`s will compute the minimal diff to deploy your changes.

5. **Use Your Program**:

    Now that your code is deployed, you can interact with it.  In the above example, we can curl the endpoint:

    ```bash
    $ curl $(pulumi stack output url)
    ```

6. **Access the Logs**:

    If you're using containers or functions, Pulumi's unified logging command will show all of your logs:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi logs -f
    ```

7. **Destroy your Resources**:

    After you're done, you can remove all resources created by your program:

    ```bash
    $ pulumi destroy -y
    ```

Please head on over to [the project website](https://pulumi.io) for much more information, including
[tutorials](https://pulumi.io/quickstart), [examples](https://github.com/pulumi/examples), and
[an interactive tour](https://pulumi.io/tour) of the core Pulumi CLI and programming model concepts.

## <a name="platform"></a>Platform

### CLI

| Architecture | Build Status |
| ------------ | ------------ |
| Linux/macOS x64 | [![Linux x64 Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi.svg?token=cTUUEgrxaTEGyecqJpDn&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi) |
| Windows x64  | [![Windows x64 Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/uqrduw6qnoss7g4i?svg=true&branch=master)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/pulumi/pulumi) |

### Languages

|    | Language | Status | Runtime |
| -- | -------- | ------ | ------- |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-js.png" height=38 /> | [JavaScript](./sdk/nodejs) | Stable | Node.js 6.x-10.x |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-ts.png" height=38 /> | [TypeScript](./sdk/nodejs) | Stable | Node.js 6.x-10.x |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-python.png" height=38 /> | [Python](./sdk/python) | Preview | Python 3.6 |
| <img src="https://www.pulumi.com/assets/logos/tech/logo-golang.png" height=38 /> | [Go](./sdk/go) | Preview | Go 1.x |

### Clouds

See [Supported Clouds](https://pulumi.io/reference/clouds.html) for the full list of supported cloud and infrastructure providers.

### Libraries

There are several libraries that encapsulate best practices and common patterns:

| Library | Status | Docs | Repo |
| ------- | ------ | ---- | ---- |
| AWS Serverless | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/aws-serverless/) | [pulumi/pulumi-aws-serverless](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws-serverless) |
| AWS Infrastructure | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/aws-infra/) | [pulumi/pulumi-aws-infra](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws-infra) |
| Pulumi Multi-Cloud Framework | Preview | [Docs](https://pulumi.io/reference/pkg/nodejs/@pulumi/cloud/) | [pulumi/pulumi-cloud](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-cloud) |

## Contributing

Please See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on building Pulumi from source or contributing improvments.
