sdk/nodejs/README.md, before:

# Pulumi Node.js SDK

The Pulumi Node.js SDK lets you write cloud programs in JavaScript.

## Installation

Using npm:

```bash
$ npm install --save @pulumi/pulumi
```

Using yarn:

```bash
$ yarn add @pulumi/pulumi
```

This SDK is meant for use with the Pulumi CLI.  Please visit [pulumi.io](https://pulumi.io) for
installation instructions.

## Building and Testing

For anybody who wants to build from source, here is how you do it.

### Prerequisites

This SDK uses Node.js and we support the Active LTS and Current releases, as defined by
[this table](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule).  We support both [NPM](https://npmjs.org) and
[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) for package management.

At the moment, we only support building on macOS and Linux, where standard GNU tools like `make` are available.

### Make Targets

The first time you build, run `make ensure` to install and prepare native plugins for V8:

    $ make ensure

This is only necessary if you intend to produce a build that is capable of running older versions of the SDK
contained in this directory.  If you do intend to do this, you must have node `6.10.2` installed.

To build the SDK, simply run `make` from the root directory (where this `README` lives, at `sdk/nodejs/` from the repo's
root).  This will build the code, run tests, and install the package and its supporting artifacts.

At the moment, for local development, we install everything into `/opt/pulumi`.  You will want this on your `$PATH`.

The tests will verify that everything works, but feel free to try running `pulumi preview` and/or `pulumi update` from
the `examples/minimal/` directory.  Remember to run `tsc` first, since `pulumi` expects JavaScript, not TypeScript.

Commit message:

Remove the need for /opt/pulumi
This is an artifact of the past, where we did not ship packages via
NPM but instead linked everything. At that time, we wanted to have our
own install location for Pulumi, because it reflected how we shipped
the product.

This was pretty confusing, because we had both `build` and `install`
targets, and we'd put some binaries both in `GOBIN` and
`/opt/pulumi/bin` leading to general confusion.

Now we simplify things. We install everything into GOBIN (both our go
binaries and the language executor scripts) and when we `yarn link` to
register packages we just link the version we built into the bin
folder.

Overall, this should simplify our story and make things a little more
regular.

We no longer require any directories to be created before building
Pulumi.

sdk/nodejs/README.md, after:

# Pulumi Node.js SDK

The Pulumi Node.js SDK lets you write cloud programs in JavaScript.

## Installation

Using npm:

```bash
$ npm install --save @pulumi/pulumi
```

Using yarn:

```bash
$ yarn add @pulumi/pulumi
```

This SDK is meant for use with the Pulumi CLI.  Please visit [pulumi.io](https://pulumi.io) for
installation instructions.

## Building and Testing

For anybody who wants to build from source, here is how you do it.

### Prerequisites

This SDK uses Node.js and we support the Active LTS and Current releases, as defined by
[this table](https://github.com/nodejs/Release#release-schedule).  We support both [NPM](https://npmjs.org) and
[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) for package management.

At the moment, we only support building on macOS and Linux, where standard GNU tools like `make` are available.

### Make Targets

To build the SDK, simply run `make` from the root directory (where this `README` lives, at `sdk/nodejs/` from the repo's
root).  This will build the code, run tests, and install the package and its supporting artifacts.

At the moment, for local development, we install everything into the go binary location (which defaults to `~/go/bin`). 
You will want this on your `$PATH`.

The tests will verify that everything works, but feel free to try running `pulumi preview` and/or `pulumi update` from
the `examples/minimal/` directory.  Remember to run `tsc` first, since `pulumi` expects JavaScript, not TypeScript.
